eight we're back with basically trying
to learn mathema ma go through the book
mathematics and
lean uh and the the goal is to prove the
very
first proposition well I guess not
really first let's
see I guess the rest are definitions but
we're trying to prove this statement
which
is let K be an infinite field let F be
um
a polinomial in and what what do we
say this is
called where's
that it's the set of all
pols over the field K of of n variables
so so we have a
polinomial and K is
infinite so I don't even know how to
say the first thing let K be an infinite
field I know how to say I know how to
say k is a field but I don't know how to
specify that it's infinite okay then the
next thing is we want to prove this
statement then f is equal to
zero if and only
if if it only if the
function
from K N to K is the zero
function this is going to be a tough
proof because it relies on induction I
don't remember how to do
induction I remember I did it in the
natural number game but I don't I don't
remember
all right anyway so that's looking ahead
and I was trying to
read
doent all right so anyways we're going
to go
back and we're going to prove these
three which we were working on yesterday
and I got through Mo right in kind of we
need to translate it
to so the first thing we want to do is
we want to
uh make this thing equal to one so we
want to have have H
be uh a
* a
inverse
inverse wait is that
right
yeah
times a * a
in inverse times a *
a
inverse is equal to
one okay and so the reason why we're
doing this is we're trying to prove
that this is
one and if it is one then we'll be able
to replace the one in
this
goal
okay so what is it what we have to do
is
um all we have is the associativity of
mole 1 * a is equal to a and this one so
we can't simplify this expression yet so
we have to do is we have to do rewrite
mole
soak
K
uh all right well let's just see what
happens if I do this
oh yeah this one doesn't get simplified
either all right so we need to figure
out how
to okay what was before
this a * a
inverse so we want
to
oh wait we need to do this
too okay there we go then mole left
inverse then one
mole okay
then
um mole left
inverse okay so now we have we just
proved that this actually is equal to
one and so now we want to
do uh rewrite
h no I think I need to apply
H I forget
how oh you know what it is probably it's
probably okay but then what do we
do
[Music]
I got to
pee
for
okay oh you know what I probably forgot
to change the stream
info uh
whatever whatever who who cares
Okay
so
[__]
[Music]
I
what did that
rewrite this side to
be
times oh
oh okay then we can just
write
okay cool that's
it so what what did we do we wrote
rewrote the right hand side and
simplified it down to show
that that this term is really equivalent
to that term and then we're good because
we already know that it the original
right hand side was equal to one
okay then mole one
is easier if you if you have mole right
in okay so what is the Strat
here
for
okay wait why did
that do that it took a * 1 equal to
a and
replace the one with this side right
okay so
then now we can just
do mole
soak
uh okay
then uh Mo right
in
then we're done right 1 * a equals a Oh
wait we're trying to go we're trying to
do the other one this is yeah okay wait
so we messed this up so I don't need
this oh wait I can just
do 1 * 8 = a aren't we
done a * 1 = A8
I don't get why this proof is not done a
* 1al
a
it's crazy cuz I already did this proof
all right mole one
for
wait I think I had it
actually
we
had
this this
oh
wait
oh wait am I why am I tripping
bro
uh
okay yeah I don't know why I was
tripping right
so I want to try it again I want to try
it with
um
um how do I do N3
right
now you know what this is the best one
to
do okay so the steps
are that it
goes a * 1 =
a is the goal then you rewrite that to
be
um a * a inverse *
a then you re write that to be a * a
inverse * a without the
parenthesis then you do Mo right
in which becomes one * a and then this
gets written as a it's equal to a
a okay so here are the steps so it
becomes
um a * 1 = a
then a * a inverse *
a then oh I forgot
this then it becomes a * a inverse *
a then it becomes 1 *
a
a now this one this one
is I didn't even I didn't even try to do
this
one in
rev this one is tricky
man
uh
right I want a
hint one
mole wow look at all those rewrites it's
going to me a tough
one
okay then it's clear the next thing
after one mole is going to
be uh the left all left
inverse
of
one oh not of
one
I got to put this there there we
go wait what happened oh yeah right
okay
oh
wait oh yeah that makes
sense
M so
twice so
that groups the second
two wait how did that do it
okay what
changed okay then oh you want to
eliminate those I
guess
uh that's
it
[Music]
okay that's
it but you know what that's the that's
the annoying thing about lean actually
is
like you can do the manipulations and
really not understand the
proof so what
happened we rewrite the right hand side
to to have an
extra that's a really cool
thing
so what is it it
goes It goes a * B inverse is equal
to B inverse * a
inverse a B and
G so then we rewrite that to
be two one
times I think at that stage the lastes
yeah in
parentheses then we do
uh
mole left
inverse with a *
B
as the
a which means that it
goes a *
B inverse * a * B * B inverse * a
inverse
okay
then so then rewriting two mole of
soaks change it to
be
uh
a
times a * B inverse time
A
B B
inverse a
inverse 1 two
3 okay then we change it to be a *
B * B inverse * a
inverse oh you don't actually we don't
actually need these
parentheses we need these
parentheses okay then
uh mole right in so then we have a * 1 *
a inverse 1 mole becomes a * a inverse
which becomes
1 a * B inverse Time
1 this was this this is probably one of
the best exercises I really like this
exercise because you really got to do
the thing
okay so I just want to write it
out what is it is it it's like
that what's the block comment there's a
block
comment okay so it
goes uh
a Time
B
inverse this equal to
one or sorry no not one what the hell am
I talking about B inverse * a inverse so
then blank is equal to 1
* this then you do um blank is equal to
a * B inverse * a * B * b b
then you get is equal to and we'll do
two steps here I
guess I think need
this then it goes to
um yeah
this
here's our QED
nice little box little box little little
[__]
box so even though you can sit through
and walk through those steps it still
feels
weird it the reason why it feels weird
too is because even after going through
the steps improving it you don't really
see why it is that a that it couldn't
also be a inverse time B inverse but
somewhere in these steps there's just no
way to
rearrange and it's not clear that that's
true but there's no way to
rearrange to make it
um
to flip this guy over here so that it
becomes or
rather or rather if you were to rewrite
Mo this mol left inverse to be B *
a like if I change
this then you can do all
this but you can't flip anything around
so you're stuck and you can't simplify
it keep that commented
out all right let's
see that is such a good addition 1.88
wow to not have to restart the whole
thing it's
great okay so now we are on to section
2.3 I
guess
[Music]
for
okay rewriting is great for proving
equations but what about other sorts of
theorems how can we prove an inequality
like the fact a time yeah okay we
already read some of this yesterday
we've already seen that theorems can be
applied to arguments and hypotheses and
that the apply and exact tactics can be
used to solve
goals
the apply tactic takes a
proof
of a general statement or implication
and tries to match the
conclusion with the current goal and
leaves the
hypothesis if any is new
goals I think that's why I was confused
about
yesterday let's see I forget exactly
which one it is
um there was an apply here that
was
I think it was
this right because this leaves the
hypothesis as new
goals so that's really what what's going
on
there the apply tactic takes a proof of
a general statement or implication and
tries to match the conclusion with the
current goal then leaves the hypotheses
if any as new
goals if the given proof matches the
goal exactly
you can use the exact tactic instead of
apply in the first example applying Le
trans creates two
goals
right and we use the dots to indicate
where the proof of each Begins the dots
are optional but they serve to focus the
goal within the block introduced by the
dot only one goal is
visible yeah within the block introduced
by the dot only one goal is visible and
it must be completed before the end of
the block here we end the first block by
starting a new
one with another dot we could just as
well have decreased the indentation in
the fourth example and and in the last
example
we we avoid going into tactic mode
entirely Ellie oh yeah see there's
no there's no buy here and there's no
buy
there what is the dock string for buy
that's what I want to know buy tack
constructs a term of the expected type
by running the
tactics
huh
God I hate the naming of this I don't
understand because of the right
associativity these
LT
sh
EX
this one is called
LT of
LT of l
e
okay these names are really confusing
but I guess it the only one that
actually makes sense for the namings of
these is that
the L and LT are the first ones here and
the middle one here corresponds to
the
first
okay so it
goes
three one 2 so less than of less than of
less than or equal to I don't know how
I'm going to remember that that is
totally weird to me I know that I'm sure
it makes sense but for me that that
doesn't make any
sense
okay we got an
exercise
sorry okay so wait so we want to
prove a is less than equal to
E
so wait it's going to be it's 312 so we
want to
rewrite uh Le
of l e of
LT do we have that I don't even think
that's a
thing
H okay wait let me read the thing again
let's walk through those examples
because we didn't even walk through
those all right so we start
here and we have two sub goals
now
I don't like how it shows that
one
EX
for
we have a is less than or equal to b b
is less than
C so we should be able
to a is less than or equal to
b b is less than C implies
that a is less than C so that is going
to be
LT of l
e LT okay so apply
LT of l e of L LT
h0 and that gives
us wait um
fail to unify a lesson
C I don't know why I'm not supposed to
provide
two things I literally I thought I'm
supposed to provide this in
H1 fail to unify this with
that
okay I think I get it because
the I I think I get how apply is working
here but I'm not exactly clear how
we um keep going so then let's just
apply the next one which is probably so
now we
have B is less
than e
so this one was uh so now we
have
for
yeah LT of LT of
L and that changes the goal from B less
than e to C is less or equal to
E
for
yeah I don't know what the hell the
answer
is
oh
what oh we gotta
wait
for
okay why am I tweaking over this
proof
okay all right let me just like think
about it so we have four hypotheses and
a
goal a is less than or equal to B and B
is less than C so we can use this to
construct a new
hypothesis what was it
SL who cares okay so we can use
h0 and
H1 imply a is less than
C
okay so let's just call
that
then then if H Prime and
H2 which
is a is less than
C and C is less than equal to D
implies that a is yeah
and then a is less than D and D is less
than e implies
that
done
so okay so I I want to do it a different
way I want to say have H Prime
type okay cool all right I like that
okay
nice
uh yeah no
um uh what's wrong with that type
mismatch
no no
no wait wait where are we here we
have a is less than
C A is less than
D and D is less than e so we should be
able to have h3b a is less than by L
trans
why do that not
work oh
wait and then I should just be able to
do that okay
so that proof
makes sense to
me
excuse
me oh [__] that's not what I wanted to
write I want to copy over some of these
uh
and then I wanted to copy over
uh these two or actually no all three of
these these are all real good
okay that's all I wanted to
do okay but I want to do another one of
these
where I see how they use app
plot so instead of using
have we
apply which one is
it um
apply LT of L of LT h0 okay
so in this
case we
take the conclusion a less than
C
now the solution did
what we had these is then PL Le
trans
less than or equal to trans that's
strange right
because it's probably LT trans
then it's probably apply LT of l e of
lth2
and then exact
H3 is that what they did no see they
gave both of
those
okay sort of makes
sense what is like the English way to
explain this
so we give it h0 which is a is less than
b and it tries to rewrite the goal which
is a a is less than C with B is less
than C so then okay so then that's how
we get
this
then we
have uh Le trans or LT trans we provide
it H1 which is B is less than C and the
goal is B is less than e so that means
that we're allowed to
conclude and in this case
uh a is actually B and B is
C so that's why we get C is less than
e and then here we provided both H2 and
H3 which is why we have l e of L LT of l
e of LT
p and so we
rewrite so what happens when we provide
both of
them we're
done because we can
conclude the proof okay I I think I get
it that was kind of tough actually
[Music]
in addition to equations and
inequalities in the context larth will
use additional inequalities that he
passes arguments in the next
example XLE EXP M PR H Prime is a proof
of XB is less than or equal to X
XC notice that in lean we write FX to
denote the application of f to the
argument X exactly the same way we write
HX to denote the result of applying a
factor theorem H to the argument
X
right the like functional underpinnings
of this is really
interesting parentheses are only needed
for compound arguments as an F ofx + Y
without the parentheses it would be
evaluated as F ofx +
y lth okay fine
here's some more theorems in the library
that can be used to establish
inequalities on the real
numbers oh yeah just throw me a ton of
theorum thank you
guys
add Le ad oh yeah that's
useful Quantified overall C then this is
the same thing then uh add
LT
oh these ones are
crazy add non neck that's a good one add
pause that's a good one add pause of
pause of
nonneg add pause
of I wonder if there's a
um
add pause of non
of
pause
yeah cool cool very
cool
[Music]
I wonder what the proof of X pause
is
damn it takes forever to load this
file here we go we're almost
there
huh
for
okay all
right some of the theorems use a bi
implication we will discuss this
connective in Greater detail in the next
chapter such a theum can be used with
rewrite to rewrite a goal to an
equivalent
one
oops yep that makes
sense
in this section however we will use the
fact that if uh there's a hypothesis of
a if and only if B is such an
equivalence then h. MP establishes the
forward Direction a implies B and h. NPR
rever establishes the reverse Direction
B implies a here MP stands for modus
ponin and modus ponin reverse you can
also use one
and2 uh equivalently if you prefer the
th the
following proof
works okay what is the
proof
ALB CL L
TD which one is this add add LT of add
of LT of L dude I
mean what the
hell okay so what is this give
us so the first goal
okay that makes sense and then XLT X
reverse
Direction and H1 is
this okay cool wait so at this point we
get
huh
okay bye
sorry
no wonder if I can type
ring probably not because
exp I don't know I don't know
why oh yeah this one's not that hard
because yeah it's got to be add Le add
left
I want to do I like these
halves
uh wait is that right
um
so
then
uh nice I like that
proof I I like have have is one of
my have is a tactic that I can get
behind what is the actual
answer okay that's also good let's do
that
one
okay
so all right so that gets rid of the
C okay then we want to rewrite X Le
X and so that that just figures out
which way to
yeah I like that too okay
then
apply the same thing add Le add left h0
okay cool I like both of
those
Frist
[Music]
um
d
for
[Music]
you know what I'm feeling like actually
I'm feeling like
uh
what
see wait what the
hell I just want
albums
Plastic
Beach this album is probably [__]
good let me just listen to the hits
right
now
upon melch Hill there's a plastic
tree
with
[Music]
me
all right enough messing
around
okay so we're just do we're just proving
this uh I probably can just type Norm
num
here why is this
not
okay if I were just to
say Okay
so
okay so I think I want to do
by
o add PA wait hold
on okay that is exactly what I
wanted
wait
wait oh here's what I want to
do
okay
I don't know why they even wanted us to
write that
thing
oh okay all right makes sense because
this thing also needs proof that inside
the log
is
positive
so I could do that let's see what they
have there it
is
up B melon col Hill there's a
plastic okay so after line two what do
we have is the
goal oh that's
concise that's almost a little too smart
for
me in some sense I actually like the
longer proofs because
they're clear you know they're not so
whatever see
here first we say add pause and then we
need two things first we need to prove
that the first one's positive and the
second one is
positive and actually do
we ad non neeg is probably also
a
but presumably there's
a yeah right there's this one
too but that's
okay then
simp I think I yeah okay so instead of
simp I could do
apply
uh
yeah
add and
then that's also good because then we
don't rely on simp
okay more numerical
proofs
um that's an interesting
one it's probably going to be
this but it's not an ad that's the
thing let's see what does this thing
say
oh right I forgot about apply we got to
try out
apply okay from these examples it should
be clear that being able to find the
library theorems you need constitutes an
important part of formalization there
are a number of strategies you can
use test okay I hope it's not too
loud you can use the API documentation
you can rely on math lib naming
conventions uh if you right click on
existing theorem and you can use apply
question
mark all right so yeah
so I think it takes a
while right like it's supposed to show
up something
right I think it's
searching presume oh yeah there we go it
just colored it
in there we go it's running out of time
wait I found it
bro that's not
helpful I want to look at the solu I
don't I don't even know what it's trying
to get for me
sub ell sub left I could have figured
that [__]
out refine I've never even seen that
tactic
before
there uh
x l
x
for
okay let's keep
going
what happens if we
do I just want to try
simp no that's
stupid
ly
pretty steep learning
curve
uh s less than or equal to T is
definitionally equivalent to the
uh oh yeah ring is used a ton up there
finally notice that in the second line
of the second calc
proof instead of writing
exact yeah that I don't really get that
like why you don't have to say by but
you can just make a proof term
for
all right let's [__] get
it oh we're almost done with this
section still pretty far from finishing
the first chapter the first real
[Music]
chapter
no
okay
so a * abs of a * B is less than or
equal to A2 + b^2 /
it's kind of interesting
actually it's not it's not immediately
clear to me that that's true
eight
okay so if a and b are
equal
then both the left hand side and right
hand side are the
same all right so I don't know how to
prove this
like does it have a hint
oh you know what I have that written on
my
thing okay yeah I was I was looking into
that
one freak on my di Mr Meek okay
so all right
nice this is probably going to be a cal
one
h
I wonder how you do this one a * B is
less than or equal to a 2 + b^2 /
what is this why do you need to do
that
a is less than or equal to B over C if
and only if a * C is less than
b okay so then
here what is Fact
one oh
[__] they caught me not doing the EXT
the walking through these Cal these long
ass Cal
ones
interesting very
interesting
wait where the hell is Fact one
oh
wow that's
crazy
for
oh
yeah
that's true huh that's
crazy that is
true I didn't think about the
factorization a minus b^ 2 but that is
definitely the right way to do it and
then this way isn't this the same
thing
for
I don't know why that's true
though
for
um
yeah okay all
right I mean that's that's a good
proof I'm going to
continue
why are there
always
I guess it did have to restart the
client
for
how is this
defined
for
okay let's just read the
thing the Min function on the real
numbers is uniquely characterized by the
following three facts Min Ellie left
a Min Ellie
right
notice that we have to apply Min to a
pair of arguments A and B by writing Min
a rather than Min a comma b h formally
Min is a function
of
the arrows Associated to the right so
the type is interpreted as
real cating is so
trippy
for
all
[Applause]
for
e
okay all right so the proof that the Min
operation is
commutative
that's the proof but what's that
proof a partial order is a reflexive
transitive antisymmetric
relation right it's Def Mind by
that and a
pre-order
for
okay so this took Min a b is equal to
Min ba a and you
apply
okay so then what does this
do
so after this we have two
goals all
right so
then Min a b is equal to Min ba okay so
the way we do it is
apply
l n t
Sim this gives us gives two
goals to show that one is min
a 2 is less than or equal to Min
ba and 2 Min ba is less than or equal to
Min
a okay so then to prove the first
one I don't know what show does show
finds the first goal whose Target
unifies with
t I don't even think you need to put
that in
there but
whatever
okay
apply L
Min which gives
us an uh ell
Min ell men is
H1
C is less than or equal to a
H2 C is less than or equal to
B okay
produces two
goals so now we need to show
that is one Min a is less than or equal
to a or b b is the first one doesn't
matter Min a is less than or equal to
a oh wow there's a lot of proofs of
this can you do repeat in a
rewrite I would hope
so
for
that's really
cool but for real you're going to make
me do this okay yeah we should probably
do
this okay my favorite proof is
probably this
one
it's literally got to be the exact same
thing
is there a Max
com I don't like this fun thing this
thing makes no sense to
me
Library proofs are so Advanced
bro the hell is this little
arrow I don't
know
[Music]
e
it's this probably
called easy
bro
whoa
oh
ah
for
[Music]
this
right yeah that makes
sense the first apply uses H and the
second one uses HB
a
for
there's an interesting fact that Min
distributes over Max the way
multiplication distributes over addition
and vice versa in other words on the
real numbers we have the identity that
Min a of Max B C is less than or equal
to Max
of wait so if we were to do a * b + C
we'd get a * b + a * C see
similarly Min
a
that's
weird
[Music]
for
all right should we do this one let me
read it
um
in the next section we will see this
does not follow from the transitivity
and reflexivity of less than and
Ellie of
Lee and the characterizing properties of
men and Max en numerated above we need
to use the fact that Lee on the real
numbers is a total order
which is to say it satisfies for all
XY huh either X is less than or equal to
y or Y is less than or equal to
X
here the disjunction symbol or in the
first case we have Min X Y is equal to X
and in the second case we have Min XY is
equal to
Y we'll learn how to Reason by cases
later for now we'll stick to examples
that don't require the case
split
damn I feel like I should probably do
these
exercises
it's probably the same thing right
uh
apply L
Le so then that gives us two
goals dude this should I want to change
that I hate
that fact
dude
do I need to write
[Music]
r
okay fine so let's apply
[Music]
this
for
I don't even know if I'll be able to
apply this why won't why is it possible
that I won't be able to apply
this wait but you know what I want to
do I want
to I want this
proof
wait we don't even need to apply
this
wait I want to see the example for this
I'm I'm totally
lost this is a long proof
dude
triangle
inequality
for
[Music]
all right you know what we have to write
this
for
what does that
do wait wait wait wait
wait
a. H1B cross what is that even
mean wait what do you get after
this
I don't really get this
part
for
okay
fine oops
uh okay so what is the first step you
know what I want to do
this see what's going on
here
for
e
are you able to do
like
can you do
that it's not a tactic
but wait Min Ellie is it Ellie men oh
it's Ellie
men
[Music]
for
um uh add Le add apply add Le add oh
wait
uh is that what we do no we do this
right
um oh wait do we have two goals
here
apply yeah
yeah
so that's it
right
so
for
[Music]
okay well
so uh if I were to explain the proof of
ox just in
English
I would say there's there's cases okay
okay if I have Min
a plus c and I want to prove that that's
less than or equal to Min of a +
C and B+
C well there's two cases one
case is that Min a equal a so in that
case we have a plus c and we know that
which implies that b is less
than wait what does it do in the case of
a
tie okay well we we know that b
is wait I I just want to do uh EV Val
Min 3 and three or
wait it's the same of course and it
doesn't actually matter which
so whatever we get the implication that
or the fact that b is less than or equal
to a
so that means that we
get and we know that a + C is going to
be greater than or equal to B+
C
by add l e or
whatever is that what happens when we do
this
[Music]
thing
for
okay this is a good proof too I like
this
one um yeah apply ell anti Sim
can you do
that let's see
this yeah
that because this is
not the head of this expression is plus
not Min so it's not going to find
it
so
[Music]
um oh wow there this is way more
involved than I
thought oh
interesting okay then you rewrite it to
have
the minus C+
C so then the goal is
now
oh that's whatever that's not even that
cool
man I didn't get this part the Le trans
I didn't get that
part
take
okay
so I feel like they didn't explain what
this a. B C.B cross thing is like when
you like I get this I get up to here
this is fine
then we have a less than or equal to so
now we need to prove
that Min a plus c B+ C plusus C is less
than or equal
to
a and then there's the second
case
I don't get this thing at all I don't
know what it's
doing oh we applied Ox though to get
this oh and then you fold it
in
what wait hold on what about
this dude what is repeat how do you even
use repeat that's
stupid
uh oh wait we don't need
need this we need
this okay
so okay so first I want to just
do
rewrite uh sub
or sub
self not sub sself
though
um add
neg what is it Alt Enter not Alt
Enter uh what is it
called how do we do
it
control
space
[Music]
what
oh but this one did do
it that bothers me man I don't get that
at
all all right
whatever
apple
sauce okay now there's some weird
thing have
H be
um
wait
uh
for
why
[Music]
hey
okay can
apply um not ax but
uh
add ell add
right okay then apply now now that we
have a minut at the head on the right we
can say
apply L men
right but that's not what they did they
did something
sneaky this is the part that I do not
understand is where you apply Le
trans
I don't
know okay before this we had the goal
was Min a plus c b +
C plus minus C is less than or equal to
Min
a okay and then what it they do is
apply L trans and L trans
is you have H1 of a is less
than b or equal to B H2 is B is less
than or equal to C
and H3 is a is less than or equal to C
that's got to be it
right yeah so then when you apply
this what you're doing is you're
introducing
so wait so in this case a is defined as
Min a + C B + C+ minus C and B is
defined as Min
a
so we're going to get
H1 a is less than or equal to B and H2 B
is less than or equal to C
C what is C in this
case I don't even know what c
is
so
wait no C is equal to C is equal to Min
a and so this
is so B is like this weird whole
and
then this one right C is min AB yeah
okay takes a little bit but that makes
sense and then we have this random new
thing
B can I tell it how to name
it
why does Ox even apply
here I don't
even what does Ox Do ox solves that
goal
what the
heck okay so B
becomes uh question mark a. BC B
cross and then once you have
that you apply ax so the two goals
are
Min a + C B+
C plus minus C is less than or equal
to uh question mark a. BC dob cross I
don't know
and then the second goal is a
BCB cross is less than or equal to Min
AB
soon
ox
El trans would still work if we didn't
call this but Ox would fail
right I guess Ox didn't fail why do we
need to do
that
for
this proof is difficult
man why does Ox do do this I don't get
it how how does
it
for
what is the doctrine for
apply
the current goal against the conclusion
of e
type
for
okay all right all right let's move on
this one is weird I don't get the
I I don't get what's
happening here I just don't see
it
what is it
called
is
for
I don't think it's comparable
but
for
okay it's time to continue let's see
dude I want to finish this chapter at
least damn bro the proof the proof
stepped up there
[__] these ones were difficult Max was
easy but
uh minok was
crazy I didn't even do minok I just
stopped Ox was Ox was
fine but
then this one whatever it's called
is Super Hot Fire
damn
for
okay let's continue
we're we're
here
for
ABS add add
abs
abs the
ABS
[Music]
boy use it to prove prove a
variant okay first off what is the proof
for ad
Abad the hell is
this
simpa
a bro I don't know this
syntax
cuz this just constructs a proof term
which you know the annoying thing is
that it doesn't tell me anything then I
don't I don't have any understanding of
what this
does n this
crazy
um wait so okay so the first thing is
probably rewrite
um what is it
called
sub
eek
ad I'm not doing a I'm doing a tactic
proof bro as long as I can get the
answer oh wait hold
on wait
um
for
okay how do I prove this is
normally a minus
B is less than or equal to abs of a
minus
B
for
how do you explain this just how do you
explain this proof just
words
for
right
okay
for
bro I am
lost
a dumbass but I don't know how to prove
this is equal
to
yeah
yeah is less
than
sub less than sub
right oh that just removes the bees
and then of course we have to rely
on
that so now we have what did that get us
I don't really get we're still in the
Cal block but what is there what is this
even
where are we at here oh wait we had
something add sub
cancel
[Music]
oh
huh
okay
for
okay that sort of makes
sense see if I remember how to do
Cal
see
yeah a minus
B is equal
to a - b +
B minus
B by so I can is that right what do they
do oh yeah
for
okay then you say blank
is less than or equal
to
e
for
go
a divides B *
C
[Music]
for
is this the same
thing
I don't get this
theorem how is that different from this
for
oh I get it okay yeah this proof makes
sense
for
[Music]
I'm in the
solutions
X divides
w
is it the whole
[Music]
term it's got to
be so that means
means we have X
Ides y * x *
z+ X2 +
w^2
sh
what
if that's the case can't I do
this I'm not going to use it I just want
to can't
I do it
again
for
what
why the hell is that not
working
for
I forgot how do you what's the Syntax
for e
theem
bro I don't get
it bro
what
oh
wait
I don't get
[Music]
it
but I feel like I'm probably not allowed
to use
these
oh we are allowed to use
divad you know what I don't understand
why
okay so then the first
one so how did this work exactly again
it was that uh div Mo of div
left so wait so we're doing the right so
this should be x * Z okay cool
then div Mo
right why is
it div divide mole right the divisible
part is on the left that's so
confusing
what dude what is going wrong there's
some weird indentation thing
this makes no
sense right so he did up so you know I'm
going to do
this I'm going tab this
in
okay I don't know what was going on with
that I really don't honestly the Whit
space like I feel like it's just a poor
choice like yeah you have the goal State
the tactic state or whatever available
to you but Whit spacing just makes this
so whatever I'm sure it looks L the
other way around too but this is just
totally
crazy
[Music]
for
I don't
know I don't
know
Happ
all
are
inter this phen
bro let me cheat let me cheat on this
apply gcd
commutative
um
we noticed that our machine learning
workloads um they spend roughly 30% end
of the time reading Data before even
processing the data so what if we can
make the reader properly to X we can
shrink this by 15% which is savings and
you can see all right cool we're
back
whoa some fancy
[__] uh I don't know how to prove this
let me go to the
solutions oh yeah I should have known
all right maybe we can figure it out
from
here so we're going to get so we're
going to do do apply uh nat. gcd
antisymmetric hello
hello bro
what oh oh
oh these aren't
real
oh
interesting right
okay do we have that up
there
for
you're
[Music]
for
it's all right oh you have
there
for
oh what's up
bro what's going on
man
all
right um let's see what are the hardest
ones we did
[Music]
today yeah this one was tough this one
just didn't even make
sense
yeah oh yeah I like this
one that's a good
[Music]
one
so there's the yeah
the B is less than c c is less than or
equal to D B is less than C
H2 C is less than or equal to
D
and
H3 D is less than e and the proof is a
is less than
e wait what is
that
one
what is
that yeah that's what I thought when I
but I didn't want to clown on
it bro you just baited me
dude oh [__]
that's so
funny D what you been up to yeah no I
believe that he actually went there but
it's
hilarious okay what else is
good
um oh yeah I liked
these I liked these one
on H A is less than or equal to
B so therefore log of 1 + x
a
less than or equal
to log of 1 +
x
b
that's
great
cool I wonder if Poland has good
coverage on free to PE I wonder if
there's a lot of open street map users
in in uh
Poland
nice Poland is 3D that's
sweet damn dude this place looks
beautiful Poland would be such a cool
place to
visit I feel like people don't tour
don't there's like I feel like when
people talk about Europe tourism Poland
is rarely mentioned I feel like people
only go to Italy
France Spain and Germany and the
UK
like like east of Berlin like people I
feel like don't even
go yeah seems like it
LS a man in
LS yeah it is on the outskirts
huh and why do we use wait we don't even
use h0 oh yeah we do log less than log
it requires a proof of of the fact dude
ol I feel like you'd like this
programming language it's called lean
and it's for proving math it's pretty
sweet crackout
Center Center
Poland
where is this in relation to
Warsaw this CRA out near
Warsaw why isn't it populating my oh no
it's not even kco is not
near
Warsaw dude I love this I love when they
the roofs are copper it's just so
pretty oh kraka is the second biggest
city
H you're in Warsaw
right oh
yeah what's the population of
Poland oh wow actually compared to
too I was not expecting
that it's
like
huh wait
actually
uh um actually
wait pop density
of
Poland per square mile let's see if this
works first Germany pop
density does it plot them both over each
other damn that did not
work compared with
I mean that's kind of cool operation in
itself but that's not what I wanted at
all let's see what happens if I do
this
oh nice it is a Time series that's
[__]
[Music]
sweet
uh a line plot list list line is there a
Time series plot list line plot what if
I just do yeah list line plot of P1 is
that going to
work yeah Germany is two times higher
okay so here but I want to do this and I
think I can give this a
list but I want to do P2 is equal to
Germany population
density uh uh it
didn't P2 Germany population density
over time it's crazy that I got the
overtime part this plus all thing that
is so
cool
huh
um how do I let's
see I want to copy
this I'm going to
do oh it's going to be
ridiculous that's not what I wanted I
want
want this should be just entity country
Poland
I wonder if America will
work wait I could just do this am I
dumb
uh I'm want to copy that
thing
dude this programming language is so
cool so easy to do
anything that is [__]
awesome
h
wait what is this what are the units on
this
thing this can't be million oh yeah this
is the density that's the interesting
part wait
so can I
do Legend
equals I want the
legend
what happens if I just copy and paste
this it's going to be a huge
mess and you make this code plot with a
legend of the
country yeah it's it's per square mile
well I don't know what units it's
using could be square kilometers yeah
probably is square
kilometers
let's see can I if I just Google
population density
Poland it doesn't give me a plot that's
the
problem
oh dude this code sucks that's the
biggest problem about chaty BT is it
just doesn't know how to write good code
with
Mathematica
plot
Legends this is probably going to be a
mess
what if I just type in this plot
Poland
Germany population density over
time
if it gets that I'll be really
shocked see it made a list but it didn't
plot
it I wish they just had a highle plot
Comm in that did the most reasonable
thing
oh cool you can actually see the
samples
oh yeah Claude I haven't tried Claude
Opus yet do I need to I think I need to
pay for it
right I should try
it
I heard that a bunch of people got like
banned off of Claude for some reason
this thing is being total dick to
me
son
it code
to what's going on oh code to
plot po population density
in uh of
Poland
Germany with
labels
in oh I like this little low frame rate
animation I like
that oh
[__] hey that's not bad let me give the
same one to a
chat fresh prompt
I don't think this is right I think this
is like way
more I think this is not going to work
at all but we're going to find
out it made up it made up a
thing made up a whole bunch of
stuff
what was the full form of that
entity like what
is what is that plus all thing oh if you
hover over it date goes to all
so subscribe to Pro and get
opus
all right let's just see if this
works I feel like just not enough people
use
um could be so
sick see bar chart that's not even what
I want
bro
dark blue is not a known entity
class all right it can't do it so I have
to actually read the
docks all right I I'm not going to
[__]
bother the point is that it seems like
Germany's population density has
increased
faster but now it seems like the rate of
change is about the
same pretty
interesting I wanted like
see that's the thing is if GPT was like
really good at writing
code for wol from language I could then
be like all right now I just want to
take every
country plot them all together find the
one whose rate of change is the highest
and see if that like I don't know you
could just do so
much you could just do so much
better wow the population density of
America is low as hell
[Music]
though it's kind of
interesting yeah I mean there's just
it's all agricultural
Soviet occupation in Poland oh
well okay yeah
so so what was here we
had and then log less than log we need a
proof
that
right so once we apply this then we have
a new goal just to prove that one yeah
okay this is a good proof I like this
one what else did we
do
improving identities to we finish all
this
one I spent a long ass time on mol in
brev this was a is a good
one
okay dude yeah you should check out this
language it's
crazy honestly it's kind of nasty
because there's a ton of keywords like
there's all these tactics to know but
it's pretty
cool dude how's the scraping thing in
Rust
going
for
some crates to update to hyper one
before
publishing
nice dude I want to scrape some stuff
once it's once it's published I want to
download a whole bunch of cool
[__] is it
fast I bet it's
fast when did hyper one come
out oh a while ago yeah but it takes so
long for the the ecosystem to update I
still get the pendot things for like a
old ass library to upgraded Tokyo
1.0
Fanta Chini is uh Fant chinii like a
HTML par or something I forget what it
was dude did you see that someone uh
that someone added Jupiter notebook I
tagged you in my Discord server that
someone added Jupiter notebook support
for uh for that language cast
I never even look through the pr I still
need to look through the PR but this guy
in the thing is I was thinking like it's
kind of a mess
like like he edits 40 files like what I
would rather do is I would rather have a
new
repo with all the Jupiter stuff and keep
the library as thin as
possible but it's so cool that he did
this like this must have taken him
forever
man I don't know how long
but so
cool this is [__]
awesome oh
man
all
right Mo right in was also
tough
all
right
oh yeah we're on
this
okay wait is that even
true okay we have let's say m
=
uh 12 n = 6 then gcd of can I do
this
okay so
then the gcd
of wait but what happens if it's
uh
is it commutative I guess that's what
you're trying to
prove yeah of course it's commutative
but the proof is not obvious
so
wow that's
crazy okay so
then uh we're going to get six
divides
it's six both
ways the greatest common
divisor I don't even know let's just
read the
proof what is repeat
Prime repeat Prime Tac runs tack on all
of the
goals to produce a new list of
goals then runs Tac again on all those
goals oh so it's like a map it's like a
map repeat or
something
what is
this
divide
gcd if K divides M and K divides
n
then K divides the gcd of M andn
interesting
so if K divides 6 K divides
12 so what about if we did like three
and five k k divides 3 K divides
5 gcd of three and five is one
so K is
one okay that's a very cool
theorem ooh
induction you haven't even gotten to
induction
is it cold in
Poland it's pretty
nice
okay
for
so then we get two things to prove we
need to prove
that that
divides n and it divides
M
okay
huh yeah it's hot here
too all
right
[Music]
okay let's finish this one and this will
be my
last proof of the
day
oh I'm dumb as
hell
duh
gcd wait what is it called
yeah
um n m
MN okay so then we just apply the exact
same thing over
again that's pretty
[Music]
neat
what
oh yeah okay I get
it all right that's a cool proof the
commuity of gcd is given
by that would be crazy if it wasn't
commutative
all right well let me just read the
first part of the next section I
guess
in section 2.2 we saw that many common
identities governing the real numbers
hold in more General Cas classes of
algebraic structures such as commutative
Rings we can use any axioms we want to
describe an algebraic structure not just
equations for example a partial order
consists of a set with a binary relation
that's reflexive transitive and anti-
symmetric
for
a
all right I'm going to end it I'm
totally lost I got to do this section
tomorrow
I don't know how people do this so
quickly this thing is taking [__]
forever
peace